3 Vulnerabilities Found on AvertX IP Cameras .
Release_Time :  2020-07-17 
Report_URL :  https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/avertx-ip-cameras-vulnerabilities/
On February 24 , 2020 , Palo Alto Networks Unit 42 researchers found vulnerabilities present in AvertX IP cameras running the latest firmware .
Three vulnerabilities were found in AvertX IP cameras with model number HD838 and 438IR , as confirmed by AvertX .
These products are surveillance cameras intended to be used outdoors with infrared and object detection technology built-in .
They also allow users to store the recordings in the cloud , in a network video recorder ( NVR ) and also create backups in an SD memory card .
The following are the three vulnerabilities we found : 
CVE-2020-11625: User enumeration .
CVE-2020-11624: Weak password requirements .
CVE-2020-11623: Exposed dangerous method or function .
The detected vulnerabilities have the following impact : 
Attackers can remotely enumerate the usernames of IP camera accounts , facilitating brute-force attacks .
Since it is possible to collect a set of valid usernames by interacting with the authentication mechanism of the application , it eases brute-force attacks , in which the attacker verifies if , given a valid username , it is possible to find the corresponding password .
Attackers might be able to access the camera by using its default password because it does not force you to change the default password .
A lot of IoT devices offer web-based configuration or administrative interfaces .
Often these applications , once installed , are not properly configured and the default credentials provided for initial authentication and configuration are never changed .
These default credentials can be obtained by reading the user manual of such a device .
As a consequence , attackers , and most common IoT botnets , can use them to gain access to the IoT device .
Attackers with physical access to the universal asynchronous receiver-transmitter ( UART ) interface can access its bootloader .
As a consequence , they can access and modify additional configurations , reset the configuration and even render the camera inoperable .
The AvertX IP cameras that our team analyzed are rebranded Hikvision cameras with modifications .
AvertX has released a patch for these vulnerabilities and has also removed the UART connector and disabled the interface in the latest production batch .
According to the 2020 Unit 42 IoT Threat Report , security cameras make up only 5% of enterprise IoT devices , but they account for 33% of all security issues .
This is because many cameras are designed to be consumer-grade , focusing on simplicity of use and deployment over security .
Palo Alto Networks customers are protected from these vulnerabilities via the ML-Powered Next-Generation Firewall , and IoT Security , a subscription available for the NGFW .
Failed web user interface ( UI ) login attempts to the camera elicit different responses depending on whether a user account exists .
Because the responses indicate whether a submitted username is valid or not , they make it easier to identify legitimate usernames .
If a login request is sent to ISAPI/Security/sessionLogin/capabilities using a username that exists on the camera , it will return the value of the salt given to that username , even if the password is incorrect .
However , if a login request is sent using a username that is not present in the IP camera ’s database , it will return an empty salt value .
This allows attackers to enumerate legitimate usernames , facilitating brute-force attacks .
The IP camera does not require users to change the default password for the admin account .
Every time the user logs in with the default password , the camera shows a pop-up window suggesting the password be changed , but there ’s no enforcement .
An administrator can click “ Cancel ” and proceed to use the device without changing the password .
The device allows incautious administrators to continue using the default password ( admin/1234 ) .
Additionally , it discloses the default username on the login.js script .
There is an exposed UART interface that allows access to diagnostic and configuration functionalities , and even to system information that can be modified .
This security vulnerability can be exploited by attackers with physical access to the UART interface .
The team was able to identify a 4-pin Molex connector that was unpopulated .
Most UART interfaces in commercial products are between four and six pins , so the team proceeded to identify and test the pins .
We connected to the UART interface through an Attify Badge , which is a hardware security tool that uses an FTDI chip , allowing it to speak a wide variety of communication protocols such as SPI , JTAG , I2C and UART .
It also has a microUSB port , allowing it to be connected to a PC .
To determine the baud rate , we tested with the most common values .
We opened a screen terminal to communicate with the camera ’s UART using a baud rate of 115200 .
To obtain a Uboot prompt , we interrupted the booting process pressing CTRL + U .
No username or password was required .
At this point , several commands are available to obtain information about this device including the firmware and configuration settings .
Since this device is intended to be used outdoors , it is especially important to protect it against physical attacks as well as remote attacks .
In summary , the AvertX IP camera models HD838 and 438IR are a rebranded version of Hikvision cameras with modifications and have three vulnerabilities that can be used to compromise the device and even render it inoperable .
The first is the user enumeration , which allows attackers to perform brute force attacks more efficiently .
The second vulnerability is the lack of strong password requirements , which facilitates attackers ’ efforts to find and compromise cameras using default credentials .
The last one is an exposed UART interface , which allows attackers with physical access to the camera to extract information off the device , change configuration values and even render the device inoperable .
AvertX responded quickly when contacted and has released a patch for the issues mentioned above .
In addition , AvertX has removed the UART connector and disabled the interface starting with the latest production batch .
Palo Alto Networks protects its customers from attacks on AvertX IP cameras through the following platforms : 
The ML-Powered Next-Generation Firewall , which is capable of identifying brute force attacks to block or alert them .
IoT Security , a subscription available for the NGFW , which detects brute force attacks on IoT devices and anomalous traffic .
