APT28 : AT THE CENTER OF THE STORM .
The Democratic National Committee's ( DNC ) June 2016 announcement attributing its network breach to the Russian Government triggered an international debate over Russia's sponsorship of information operations against the U.S.
At issue is the question of proof : did the Russian Government direct the group responsible for the breaches and related data leaks?
If so , is this simply a matter of accepted state espionage , or did it cross a line?
Was the DNC breach part of a concerted effort by the Russian Government to interfere with the U.S. presidential election?
Unfortunately , we have failed to ask the most consequential question : how will Russia continue to employ a variety of methods , including hacks and leaks , to undermine the institutions , policies , and actors that the Russian Government perceives as constricting and condemning its forceful pursuit of its state aims?
Our visibility into the operations of APT28 - a group we believe the Russian Government sponsors - has given us insight into some of the government's targets , as well as its objectives and the activities designed to further them .
We have tracked and profiled this group through multiple investigations , endpoint and network detections , and continuous monitoring .
Our visibility into APT28's operations , which date to at least 2007 , has allowed us to understand the group's malware , operational changes , and motivations .
This intelligence has been critical to protecting and informing our clients , exposing this threat , and strengthening our confidence in attributing APT28 to the Russian Government .
On December 29 , 2016 , the Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) and Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) released a Joint Analysis Report confirming FireEye's long held public assessment that the Russian Government sponsors APT28 .
Since at least 2007 , APT28 has engaged in extensive operations in support of Russian strategic interests .
The group , almost certainly compromised of a sophisticated and prolific set of developers and operators , has historically collected intelligence on defense and geopolitical issues .
APT28 espionage activity has primarily targeted entities in the U.S. , Europe , and the countries of the former Soviet Union , including governments and militaries , defense attaches , media entities , and dissidents and figures opposed to the current Russian Government .
Over the past two years , Russia appears to have increasingly leveraged APT28 to conduct information operations commensurate with broader strategic military doctrine .
After compromising a victim organization , APT28 will steal internal data that is then leaked to further political narratives aligned with Russian interests .
To date these have included the conflict in Syria , NATO-Ukraine relations , the European Union refugee and migrant crisis , the 2016 Olympics and Paralympics Russian athlete doping scandal , public accusations regarding Russian state-sponsored hacking , and the 2016 U.S. presidential election .
This report details our observations of APT28's targeting , and our investigation into a related breach .
We also provide an update on shifts in the group's tool development and use , and summarize the tactics APT28 employs to compromise its victims .
In October 2014 , FireEye released APT28: A Window into Russia's Cyber Espionage Operations? , and characterized APT28's activity as aligning with the Russian Government's strategic intelligence requirements .
While tracking APT28 , we noted the group's interest in foreign governments and militaries , particularly those of European and Eastern European nations , as well as regional security organizations , such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe ( OSCE ) , among others .
Table 1 highlights some recent examples of this activity .
