DarkPulsar FAQ. 
Release_Time :  2018-10-19 
Report_URL :  https://securelist.com/darkpulsar-faq/88233/
In March 2017 , a group of hackers calling themselves “ the Shadow Brokers ” published a chunk of stolen data that included two frameworks : DanderSpritz and FuzzBunch .
The Fuzzbunch framework contains various types of plugins designed to analyze victims , exploit vulnerabilities , schedule tasks , etc .
The DanderSpritz framework is designed to examine already controlled machines and gather intelligence .
In pair , it is a very powerful platform for cyber-espionage .
We always analyze all leaks containing malicious software to provide the best detection .
The same happened after the “ Lost in Translation ” leak was revealed .
We noticed that this leak contained a tool in the “ implants ” category called DarkPulsar .
We analyzed this tool and understood that it is not a backdoor itself , but the administrative part only .
We also noticed some magic constants in this administrative module , and having created some special signatures based on them , were able to catch the implant itself .
The most interesting are DisableSecurity and EnableSecurity .
Burn – for self-deletion .
RawShellcode – to execute arbitrary base-independent code .
EDFStageUpload – Exploit Development Framework Stage Upload .
Step by step it deploys DanderSpritz payloads to the victim ’s memory without touching the drive .
After this command is executed , the administrator can send to the victim any of the multiple DanderSpritz commands .
( View details in the technical part of this report )
DisableSecurity – for disabling NTLM protocol security .
With help of this command , the malware administrator does not need to know a valid victim username and password to successfully pass authentication – the system will interpret any arbitrary pair as valid .
( View details in the technical part of this report )
EnableSecurite – the opposite of DisableSecurity .
UpgradeImplant – for installing a new version of the backdoor .
PingPong – for test communication .
We found around 50 victims , but believe that the figure was much higher when the Fuzzbunch and DanderSpritz frameworks were actively used .
We think so because of the DanderSpritz interface , which allows many victims to be managed at the same time .
The second point proving this suggestion is that after stopping their cyber-espionage campaign , the malware owners often delete their malware from victim computers , so the 50 victims are very probably just ones that the attackers have simply forgotten .
All victims were located in Russia , Iran , and Egypt , and typically Windows 2003/2008 Server was infected .
Targets were related to nuclear energy , telecommunications , IT , aerospace , and R&D
DarkPulsar ’s creators did not skimp on resources in developing such an advanced mechanism of persistence .
They also included functionality to disable NTLM protocol security for bypassing the need to enter a valid username and password during authentication .
This indicates that victims infected with DarkPulsar were the targets of a long-term espionage attack .
We think that after the “ Lost In Translation ” leakage the espionage campaign was stopped , but that doesn’t mean that all computers are rid of this backdoor infection .
We cured all our users .
As for users without our protection , we have several tips on how to check whether your system is infected and how to cure it by yourself .
Note that to exploit this backdoor on infected victims , the attackers need to know the private RSA key which pairs to the public key embedded in the backdoor .
It means that no one except real DarkPulsar ’s managers can exploit compromised systems .
We can detect this threat with different technologies .
However , the standard recommendations remain the same : 
Keep your security products up to date .
Do not turn security product components off .
Keep your OS updated .
Install all security patches asap .
Use special traffic analysis tools and pay attention to all encrypted traffic .
Do not use weak passwords or the same password for several endpoints .
Use complex passwords .
Do not allow remote connections to endpoints with administration rights .
Do not allow domain administrators to be local administrators with the same credentials .
Additional mitigation strategies can be found here : 
https://encyclopedia.kaspersky.com/knowledge/strategies-for-mitigating-advanced-persistent-threats-apts/
https://encyclopedia.kaspersky.com/knowledge/strategies-for-mitigating-advanced-persistent-threats-apts-2/
https://encyclopedia.kaspersky.com/knowledge/strategies-for-mitigating-advanced-persistent-threats-apts-3/
https://encyclopedia.kaspersky.com/knowledge/strategies-for-mitigating-advanced-persistent-threats-apts-4/
We use machine learning , cloud technologies , emulation , and behavioral analysis in combination with anti-exploit protection to provide the best proactive protection for our clients .
We never engage in attribution .
Our purpose is to counteract all threats , regardless of their source or destination .
We have not seen any techniques for stealing money in this implant , but it is worth keeping in mind that this implant can run any executable code , so its functionality can be increased significantly .
