Pig in a poke : smartphone adware .
Release_Time :  2020-07-06 
Report_URL :  https://securelist.com/pig-in-a-poke-smartphone-adware/97607/
Our support team continues to receive more and more requests from users complaining about intrusive ads on their smartphones from unknown sources .
In some cases , the solution is quite simple .
In others , the task is far harder : the adware plants itself in the system partition , and trying to get rid of it can lead to device failure .
In addition , ads can be embedded in undeletable system apps and libraries at the code level .
According to our data , 14.8% of all users attacked by malware or adware in the past year suffered an infection of the system partition .
Why is that?
We observe two main strategies for introducing undeletable adware onto a device : 
1.The malware gains root access on the device and installs adware in the system partition .
2.The code for displaying ads ( or its loader ) gets into the firmware of the device even before it ends up in the hands of the consumer .
The Android security model assumes that an antivirus is a normal app , and according to this concept , it physically can not do anything with adware or malware in system directories .
This makes adware a problem .
The cybercriminals behind it stop at nothing that will earn them money from advertising ( or rather , the forced installation of apps ) .
As a result , malware can end up on the user ’s device , such as CookieStealer .
As a rule , 1–5% of the total number of users of our security solutions encounter this adware ( depending on the particular device brand ) .
In the main , these are owners of smartphones and tablets of certain brands in the lower price segment .
However , for some popular vendors offering low-cost devices , this figure can reach up to 27% .
Among the most common types of malware installed in the system partition of smartphones are the Lezok and Triada Trojans .
The latter is notable for its ad code embedded not just anywhere , but directly in libandroid_runtime — a key library used by almost all apps on the device .
Although these threats were identified several years ago , users continue to run into them .
But Lezok and Triada are just the tip of the cyber iceberg .
Below , we examine what else users face today and which system apps were found to contain “ additional ” code .
This obfuscated Trojan usually hides in the app that handles the graphical interface of the system , or in the Settings utility , without which the smartphone cannot function properly .
The malware delivers its payload , which in turn can download and run arbitrary files on the device .
It ’s interesting to note that sometimes there is no payload , and the Trojan is unable to perform its task .
The Sivu Trojan is a dropper masquerading as an HTMLViewer app .
The malware consists of two modules and can use root permissions on the device .
The first module displays ads on top of other windows , and in notifications .
The second module is a backdoor allowing remote control of the smartphone .
Its capabilities include installing , uninstalling , and running apps , which can be used to covertly install both legitimate and malicious apps , depending on the intruder ’s goals .
This adware app pretends to be a system service , calling itself Android Services ( com.android.syscore ) .
It can download and install apps behind the user ’s back , as well as display ads in notifications .
What ’s more , Plague.f can display ads in SYSTEM_ALERT_WINDOW — a pop-up window that sits on top of all apps .
Agent.pac can imitate the CIT TEST app , which checks the correct operation of device components .
At C&C ’s command , it can run apps , open URLs , download and run arbitrary DEX files , install/uninstall apps , show notifications , and start services .
This Trojan dropper hides in an app called STS , which has no functions other than displaying ads .
The downloaded code is obfuscated .
It can deploy the ToastWindow function , which in this context is analogous to SYSTEM_ALERT_WINDOW — a window that sits on top of all apps .
It can also download and run code .
Unlike the previous Trojans , Necro.d is a native library located in the system directory .
Its launch mechanism is built into another system library , libandroid_servers.so , which handles the operation of Android services .
At the command of C&C , Necro.d can download , install , uninstall , and run apps .
In addition , the developers decided to leave themselves a backdoor for executing arbitrary shell commands .
On top of that , Necro.d can download Kingroot superuser rights utility — seemingly so that the OS security system does not interfere with delivering “ very important ” content for the user .
We came across the malware Facmod.a in apps required for the smartphone to operate normally : Settings , Factory Mode , SystemUI .
Our eye was caught by devices with not one , but two malicious modules embedded in SystemUI .
The first module ( com.android.systemui.assis ) receives an address from the server ufz.doesxyz.com for downloading and running arbitrary code under the name DynamicPack : 
The second ( com.cash ) loads the payload from the encrypted file in the app ’s resources .
The payload solves the usual tasks ( for this type of threat ) of installing and running apps : 
In addition , Facmod.a has functions for periodically starting the browser and opening a page in it with advertising .
The Guerrilla.i Trojan is found in the Launcher system app , responsible for the functioning of the smartphone “ desktop. ” .
The Trojan is tasked with periodically displaying ads and opening advertising pages in the browser .
Guerrilla.i receives the configuration file by calling htapi.getapiv8.com/api.php?rq=plug .
This file can also contain an address for downloading an additional module extending the functionality .
This dropper can take cover in the Theme app ( com.nbc.willcloud.themestore ) .
Its features are not original : downloading , installing , and running apps without the user ’s knowledge .
Another piece of adware that we discovered was built into the wallpaper catalog app .
The payload of Secretad.c is contained in the file kgallery.c1ass .
It gets unpacked and launched , for example , when the device is unlocked on or apps are installed : 
Secretad.c can display ads in full screen mode , open pages in the browser , or launch the advertised app itself .
Like many other adware programs , Secretad.c can install apps without the user knowing about it .
The app also has one more ad module : 
Its payload is encrypted in the file assets/1498203975110.dat .
Among other things , it can cause the advertised app ’s page on Google Play to unexpectedly open , installed apps to start , or the browser to open .
Some smartphones contain adware modules pre-installed by the manufacturers themselves .
A few vendors openly admit to embedding adware under the hood of their smartphones ; some allow it to be disabled , while others do not , describing it as part of their business model to reduce the cost of the device for the end user .
The user generally has no choice between buying the device at the full price , or a little cheaper with lifetime advertising .
What ’s more , we did not find any electronics store offering a clear warning to users that they would be forced to watch ads .
In other words , buyers might not suspect that they are spending their cash on a pocket-sized billboard .
Meizu devices make no secret that they display ads in apps .
The advertising is fairly unobtrusive , and you can even turn it off in the settings .
However , in the preinstalled AppStore app ( c4296581148a1a1a008f233d75f71821 ) , we uncovered hidden adware able to load under the radar and display itself in invisible windows ( such method is usually used to boost the number of showings ) , which eats up data and battery power : 
But that ’s not all .
The app can download and execute third-party JavaScript code : 
Furthermore , the pre-installed AppStore app can mute the sound , access text messages , and cut and paste their contents into loaded pages .
This approach is often used in outright malicious apps which , unbeknown to the user , sign up to paid subscriptions .
One can only trust in the decency of the adware controllers , and hope that third parties do not gain access to it .
But AppStore is not the only suspicious app on Meizu devices .
In Meizu Music ( com.meizu.media.music 19e481d60c139af3d9881927a213ed88 ) , we found an encrypted executable file used to download and execute a certain Ginkgo SDK : 
What this SDK does can only be guessed at : not all Meizu devices download it , and we were unable to get hold of the latest version .
However , the versions of Ginkgo SDK that we obtained from other sources display ads and install apps without the user ’s knowledge .
The com.vlife.mxlock.wallpaper app ( 04fe069d7d638d55c796d7ec7ed794a6 ) also contains an encrypted executable file , and basically offers standard functions for gray-market adware modules , including the ability to install apps on the sly .
We contacted Meizu to report our findings , but did not receive a response .
In addition to dubious files in devices from particular vendors , we found a problem affecting a huge number of smartphones .
The memory of many devices contains the file /bin/fotabinder ( 3fdd84b7136d5871afd170ab6dfde6ca ) , which can download files to user devices and execute code on them received from one of the following remote servers : adsunflower.com , adfuture.cn , or mayitek.com .
This file is most likely part of the update or testing system , but the encrypted C&C addresses and functions providing remote access to the device raise a red flag .
The examples in our investigation show that the focus of some mobile device suppliers is on maximizing profits through all kinds of advertising tools , even if those tools cause inconvenience to the device owners .
If advertising networks are ready to pay for views , clicks , and installations regardless of their source , it makes sense to embed ad modules into devices to increase the profit from each device sold .
Unfortunately , if a user purchases a device with such pre-installed advertising , it is often impossible to remove it without risking damage to the system .
In this case , all hopes rest on enthusiasts who are busy creating alternative firmware for devices .
But it ’s important to understand that reflashing can void the warranty and even damage the device .
As for ad modules have not yet done anything malicious , the user can only hope that the developers do not tack on ads from a malicious partner network without even realizing it themselves .
MD5
42c97a5da141b9cfd7696583875bcef5 .
0065d7177dfd65cebb1e2e788dce0082 .
fc0824678f582b0bdf65856e90cf0a01 .
520b50eee2f9dc522a87398f3bd5be94 .
cf808957da17f6a0b5d266b0e301bf63 .
C&C
www.ywupscsff.com/fud.do .
www.mzeibiyr.com/7ve5.do .
i151125.infourl.net : 9080.
www.jueoxdr.com/ea.do .
ufz.doesxyz.com .
htapi.getapiv8.com/api.php?rq=plug .
stable.icecyber.org .
404mobi.com .
51ginkgo.com .
lbjg7.com .
bigdata800.com .
apd1.warnlog.com .
apd1.thunup.com .
