FOLLOW THE MONEY : DISSECTING THE OPERATIONS OF THE CYBER CRIME GROUP FIN6 .
GRABNEW , ALSO KNOWN AS NEVERQUEST AND VAWTRAK , emerged around 2013 and since then has been consistently and indiscriminately spread through massive spam campaigns .
We typically diﬀerentiate between threat actors who indiscriminately distribute malware and threat actors who use malware selectively .
GRABNEW itself is a credential-stealing backdoor with form-grabbing capabilities and the ability to inject code into specifc web pages to , for example , mimic a valid login prompt for a fnancial institution to facilitate banking fraud .
In some cases , the presence of GRABNEW malware has overlapped with the spread of POS malware such as PoSeidon , a variant of the Backoﬀ POS malware .
It ’s not entirely clear how FIN6 initially compromises victims .
In Mandiant ’s investigations , FIN6 already possessed valid credentials to each victim network and used those credentials to initiate further intrusion activity .
In one case , GRABNEW malware was found on a victim computer that FIN6 later used in its operations .
We suspect that the computer was originally compromised with GRABNEW by a separate threat actor , who used GRABNEW to capture valid user credentials .
FIN6 may have obtained those credentials ( through purchase or trade ) and used them for its operations .
FIN6 ’s use of GRABNEW , or credentials collected by GRABNEW , is not altogether surprising and possibly points to a cyber crime support ecosystem that opens doors to threat actors capable of lateral movement and more damaging activities .
Previously , we observed another FIN group — FIN2 — leverage several existing Citadel compromises to deploy their custom tools and expand within a network to compromise payment card systems .
Likewise , Proofpoint recently observed GRABNEW variants leading to downloads of POS malware known as AbaddonPOS .
After locating POS systems within the target ’s environment , FIN6 deployed POS malware that we call TRINITY .
All threat groups generally follow a broad operational framework known as the Attack Lifecycle .
While the phases of the Attack Lifecycle — from initial compromise to privilege escalation to maintaining presence and completing the mission — are remarkably consistent , the specifc TTPs used vary widely based on a group ’s skills , motivations and ultimate goals .
After gaining access with valid credentials , we observed FIN6 leveraging components of the Metasploit Framework to establish their foothoold .
For example , in one case , FIN6 used a Metasploit PowerShell module to download and execute shellcode and to set up a local listener that would execute shellcode received over a specifc port .
Similarly , FIN6 used at least two downloaders called HARDTACK and SHIPBREAD ( apparent variations on Metasploit payloads ) to establish backdoor access to the compromised environment .
Both of these tools are confgured to connect to remote command and control ( CnC ) servers and download and execute shellcode .
FIN6 generally used either registry run keys or Windows scheduled tasks in order to establish persistence for these tools .
Once their accesses were established with preferred backdoors , FIN6 used additional public utilities such as Windows Credentials Editor for privilege escalation and credential harvesting .
Additional privilege escalation tools exploited Microsoft Windows vulnerabilities in an attempt to compromise privileged account credentials on various hosts .
The tools targeted CVE-2013-3660 , CVE-2011-2005 and CVE-2010-4398 , all of which could allow local users to access kernel-level privileges .
Continuing their use of Metasploit-related tools , FIN6 also used Metasploit ’s PsExec NTDSGRAB module to obtain a copy of the Active Directory database ( ntds.dit ) .
Access to this fle would allow them to extract password hashes from the fle and crack them ofine .
