Threats in the Netherlands .
Release_Time :  2018-08-11 .
Report_URL :  https://securelist.com/threats-in-the-netherlands/88185/ .
On October 4 , 2018 , the MIVD held a press conference about an intercepted cyberattack on the OPCW in the Netherlands , allegedly by the advanced threat actor Sofacy ( also known as APT28 or Fancy Bear , among others ) .
According to the MIVD , four suspects were caught red handed trying to break into the OPWC ’s network .
Sofacy activity in the Netherlands did not come as a surprise to us , since we have seen signs of its presence in that country before .
However , aside from Sofacy we haven ’t seen many other advanced persistent threat ( APT ) groups in the Netherlands , at least when compared to other areas , such as the Middle-East .
Upon further reflection , we have concluded that this is rather odd .
There are quite a few big multinationals and some high tech companies located in the Netherlands .
In addition , there are other potential strategic targets for threat actors .
So we decided to review cyber-threat activity targeting or affecting the Netherlands .
Providing an overview of one APT ’s activity can be quite difficult , let alone all the APT activity affecting a country .
First , we only see what we can see .
That means we can only gather data from sources we have access to , such as that shared voluntarily by our customers with Kaspersky Security Network ( KSN ) , and those sources also need to be supplied with data related to a specific APT .
As a result , like any other cybersecurity vendor , our telemetry is naturally incomplete .
One way to improve our overview is to use sinkhole data .
When a domain that is used by an APT expires , researchers can register that domain and direct the traffic to a sinkhole server .
This is done quite frequently .
For many of the APTs we track , we sinkhole at least one domain .
In comparison to other sources , such as KSN and multi-scanner services , sinkhole data has a number of advantages .
For example , in some cases you can get a better overview of the victimology of the APT .
The drawback is that we need to filter the results , since there can be quite a few false positives ( e .
g .
because other researchers are investigating the malware ) .
This filtering can be quite cumbersome , because if we base it solely on the IP and the requests , it is quite difficult to come to a verdict .
For this blogpost we gathered all the sinkhole data for Dutch IPs in the last four years ( September 2014 to September 2018 ) , which amounts to around 85,000 entries .
Of course , this is far too much to verify by hand , so the first step was to filter the results , and especially all the scanners .
While some of these were relatively easy to spot and filter out ( e .
g .
all the TOR exit nodes , all the Romanian.anti-sec ) , others required a bit more effort .
In order to filter out the scanners , we deleted all entries where the IP matched more than four “ tags ”  ( each tag stands for a different campaign ) .
After doing this , we were left with around 11,000 .
That meant 77% fewer results , but there were still too many , so we applied some more aggressive filtering .
One way to determine whether a hit in the sinkhole database is a true positive ( TP ) or a false positive ( FP ) , is to find out who the victim is .
We thus reversed the IP and checked whether , at the time of the first entry in our sinkhole database , the DNS entry matched the entries in our passive DNS database .
If this was not the case , the entry was ignored .
The next step was to remove all the entries that would be difficult to investigate .
Even though this method was quite rigid and meant that some TPs might be missed , we still decided to use it , since we knew it would be too resource-intensive to investigate all the entries .
The result :  only around 1,000 entries remained for investigation .
The aim of this blogpost is to give an overview of which APT groups are active in the Netherlands and what they are interested in , and that requires TPs , not FPs .
For each remaining entry , a reverse DNS lookup was made , and the ASN information was saved .
This was checked against our passive DNS database to see whether this IP had the same domain as its first entry in the sinkhole database .
If it did , the entry was kept , if it was not , we tried to find out to which organization the IP belonged .
At this point , for the entries that remained , the raw requests were retrieved against the template request made by the APT .
Finally , for each of the IPs left on our list , we tried to tie them to a company or institution .
If this was the case , the entry was kept and marked as a TP .
We also checked our APT reports for targets in the Netherlands and added these results to the review .
Using the methods described above , we found the following APTs that are or have been active in the Netherlands :  
BlackOasis is an APT group we have been tracking since May 2016 .
It uses the commercially available FinFisher malware sold to law enforcement agencies ( LEAs ) and nation states .
BlackOasis differentiates itself from other APT-groups by using a vast amount of 0-days :  at least five since 2015 .
Victims are mostly found in Middle Eastern countries , where the group is particularly interested in politics .
We have also seen it targeting members of the United Nations and regional news correspondents .
Recently we have seen a shift in focus towards other countries such as Russia , the UK and now also the Netherlands .
Its Dutch victims fit into its shift of interest .
Sofacy , also known as Pawn Storm , Fancy Bear and many other names is an active APT group that we have followed since 2011 .
It is known for using spear phishing emails to infect targets and for the active deployment of 0-days .
In 2015 , Trend Micro researchers reported that the group had targeted the MH17 investigation team .
Last year , the Volkskrant published an article alleging it tried to infect several Dutch Ministries .
Then there is the October 4 , 2018 news of four alleged Sofacy members having been caught in April 2018 trying to hack the OPWC .
Even though we cannot confirm these last two incidents , since we are not involved , we have observed several targets in the Netherlands infected with Sofacy .
Interestingly , we observe fewer deployments of Xagent ( one of Sofacy ’s modules ) after April 2018 .
Although one new Xagent deployment was noted in August 2018 , it seems that the group pushed fewer , and then only new , deployments from April through June 2018 .
Hades is the name given to the group held responsible for the Olympic Destroyer malware that was found targeting the 2018 Winter Olympic Games in South Korea .
Our initial thought was that the malware was related to the Lazarus group , because several of our Yara rules had 100% matches with the malware .
However , after careful research we found many false flags that pointed to different APT groups .
A few months later , in May 2018 ( not long after the OPWC incident took place ) , we found that Hades had returned and was now targeting financial institutions and chemical threat prevention laboratories .
Given this shift of interest , it is no surprise that entities in the Netherlands were targeted as well .
Buhtrap is one of the groups that targets financial institutions with the ultimate goal of stealing money .
Its tools , techniques and processes ( TTPs ) don ’t differ extensively from those of traditional APT groups .
Buhtrap is one of those ( Carbanak and Tyupkin are others ) that started by infecting financial institutions in Russia and Ukraine , but after a while shifted its focus to other parts of the world .
We found Buhtrap activity in the Netherlands in 2017 .
In March 2017 , WikiLeaks published online a series of documents that they call “ Vault 7 ”  .
Some of these documents feature malware that resembles that used by the Lamberts , a toolkit that has been used for several years , with most of its activity occurring in 2013 and 2014 .
One of The Lamberts ’  variants we have been investigating is the “ Green Lamberts ”  .
We were surprised to see quite a few infections in the Netherlands , when the majority of attacks target Iran .
We do not have any insight into the profile of the victims located in the Netherlands .
Nevertheless , the fact that Lamberts is active in the Netherlands shows a possible shift in focus , and reminds us that for APT groups , borders do not exist .
Turla , also known as Uroboros , is a very active APT group , believed to be connected to many high-profile incidents such as the US Central Command attack in 2008 and the breach of RUAG ( a Swiss military contractor ) .
Other Turla targets include ministries and governmental organizations .
Given all this , the Netherlands is a logical target for the Turla group .
In fact , we would have been surprised not to have found any Turla infections in the Netherlands .
Gatak , which also goes by the names of Stegoloader and GOLD , is a group that engages in data theft using watering hole attacks .
It has been active since at least 2015 , and its main interest is in intellectual property .
Even though the use of watering hole attacks means the group does not have full control over who it infects , it has been able to hit a couple of high profile targets .
In this case , our sinkhole database enabled us to determine that one of those was a high profile target in the Netherlands .
In 2015 , the Dutch chip maker , ASML was allegedly breached by Putter Panda .
ASML acknowledged the breach and stated that one file was stolen .
No further details are publicly available , although there was an episode of the TV program “ KRO reporter ”  , partially dedicated to the breach .
ASML is one of relatively few high-tech companies in the Netherlands .
The fact that it has been breached is a clear sign that foreign threat actors are aware of and interested in industrial espionage in the Netherlands .
Animal Farm is a group that has been active since at least 2009 .
A relatively advanced threat actor , it has been targeting a variety of organizations over the past years .
Victims include governmental organizations , military contractors , activists and journalists .
Even though the group is mainly focused on French speaking countries , we still found a few infections in the Netherlands .
Although our visibility of threat actor activity in the Netherlands is incomplete , the results are nevertheless surprising .
Some groups we did not expect to see appear to be active in the country ( such as the Lamberts ) .
However , upon further thought , and especially when looking at potential targets located in the Netherlands and comparing this with the interests of some of the APT groups , their activity in the Netherlands makes sense .
The presence of both expected and unexpected threat actors is a good argument for organizations staying informed of the latest developments in cyberspace , particularly through threat intelligence reports .
Because if you know what APT groups are up to , which organisations they target and what TTPs they use , you can implement the protection you need to stay one step ahead of them .
Such precautions are important , because one of the most stunning findings from the review of sinkhole databases was the number of organizations infected using “ ordinary cybercrime malware ”  .
We saw infections among airlines , airports and other major companies ( although it should be noted that this happens in other countries as well , not just in the Netherlands ) .
It demonstrates again that it is not so difficult for ( APT ) groups to breach valuable targets and that basic cyber hygiene is important for everybody .
As a final note , one should always be careful about deriving hard conclusions from APT findings , particularly in terms of attribution .
For example , even though we saw Olympic Destroyer malware being used to target chemical threat prevention laboratories shortly after the OPWC incident , this is not conclusive evidence that the groups behind these attacks are the same , or even related .
However , using this fact to monitor your network for the presence of Olympic Destroyer malware if you think you might be a potential Sofacy target – and vice versa – seems like a good approach .
