En Route with Sednit .
Release_Time : 2016-10 .
Report_URL : https://www.welivesecurity.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/eset-sednit-part3.pdf .
The Sednit group , also known as APT28 , Fancy Bear and Sofacy , is a group of attackers operating since 2004 if not earlier and whose main objective is to steal confidential information from specific targets .
This is the third part of our whitepaper “ En Route with Sednit ” , which covers the Sednit group activities since 2014 .
Here , we describe a special downloader named Downdelph .
The key points described in this third installment are the following : 
Downdelph was used only seven times over the past two years , according to our telemetry data : we believe this to be a deliberate strategy formulated in order to avoid attracting attention .
Downdelph has been deployed on a few occasions with a never-previously-documented Windows bootkit , which shares some code with the infamous BlackEnergy malware .
Downdelph has been deployed on a few occasions with a previously undocumented Windows rootkit .
The Sednit group , variously also known as APT28 , Fancy Bear , Sofacy , Pawn Storm , STRONTIUM and Tsar Team , is a group of attackers operating since 2004 if not earlier , whose main objective is to steal confidential information from specific targets .
Over the past two years , this group ’s activity has increased significantly , with numerous attacks against government departments and embassies all over the world .
Among their most notable presumed targets are the American Democratic National Committee , the German parliament and the French television network TV5Monde .
Moreover , the Sednit group has a special interest in Eastern Europe , where it regularly targets individuals and organizations involved in geopolitics .
One of the striking characteristics of the Sednit group is its ability to come up with brand-new 0-day vulnerabilities regularly .
In 2015 , the group exploited no fewer than six 0-day vulnerabilities : CVE-2015-3043 , Flash ; CVE-2015-1701 , Windows LPE ; CVE-2015-2590 , Java ; CVE-2015-4902 , Java click-to-play bypass ; CVE-2015-7645 , Flash .
This high number of 0-day exploits suggests significant resources available to the Sednit group , either because the group members have the skills and time to find and weaponize these vulnerabilities , or because they have the budget to purchase the exploits .
Also , over the years the Sednit group has developed a large software ecosystem to perform its espionage activities .
The diversity of this ecosystem is quite remarkable ;  it includes dozens of custom programs , with many of them being technically advanced , like the Xagent and Sedreco modular backdoors  (described in the second part of this whitepaper ) , or the Downdelph bootkit and rootkit  (described in the third part of this whitepaper ) .
We present the results of ESET ’s two-year pursuit of the Sednit group , during which we uncovered and analyzed many of their operations .
We split our publication into three independent parts : 
 “Part 1: Approaching the Target ”   describes the kinds of targets the Sednit group is after , and the methods used to attack them .
It also contains a detailed analysis of the group ’s most-used reconnaissance malware .
“ Part 2: Observing the Comings and Goings ” describes the espionage toolkit deployed on some target computers , plus a custom network tool used to pivot within the compromised organizations .
“ Part 3: A Mysterious Downloader ” describes a surprising operation run by the Sednit group , during which a lightweight Delphi downloader was deployed with advanced persistence methods , including both a bootkit and a rootkit .
Each of these parts comes with the related indicators of compromise .
The main components that the Sednit group has used over the last two years , with their interrelationships .
It should not be considered as a complete representation of their arsenal , which also includes numerous small , custom tools .
ATTACK METHODS : Sedkit , Email attachments , Fake webmail login panels .
FIRST-STAGE MALWARE : Seduploader dropper , Seduploader payload , Downdelph .
SECOND-STAGE MALWARE :  Sedreco dropper , Sedreco payload , Xagent .
PIVOT MALWARE :  Usbstealer , Xtunnel .
Main attack methods and malware used by the Sednit group since 2014 .
We divide Sednit ’s software into three categories :  the first-stage software serves for reconnaissance of a newly compromised host , then comes the second-stage software intended to spy on machines deemed interesting , while the pivot software finally allows the operators to reach other computers .
In this third part , we describe the first-stage software named Downdelph .
This software was deployed only seven times by the Sednit operators , according to our telemetry data .
Interestingly , some of these deployments were made with advanced persistence methods :  a Windows bootkit and a Windows rootkit .
All the components are described in this whitepaper , with the exception of usbstealer , a tool to exfiltrate data from air-gapped machines that we have already described at WeLiveSecurity .
Recent versions have been documented by Kaspersky Labs as well .
