COMpfun authors spoof visa application with HTTP status-based Trojan
Release_Time : 2020-05-14
Report_URL : https://securelist.com/compfun-http-status-based-trojan/96874/
You may remember that in autumn 2019 we published a story about how a COMpfun successor known as Reductor infected files on the fly to compromise TLS traffic .
If you ’re wondering whether the actor behind the malware is still developing new features , the answer is yes .
Later in November 2019 our Attribution Engine revealed a new Trojan with strong code similarities .
Further research showed that it was obviously using the same code base as COMPFun .
The campaign operators retained their focus on diplomatic entities , this time in Europe , and spread the initial dropper as a spoofed visa application .
It is not clear to us exactly how the malicious code is being delivered to a target .
The legitimate application was kept encrypted inside the dropper , along with the 32- and 64-bit next stage malware .
We observed an interesting C2 communication protocol utilizing rare HTTP/HTTPS status codes ( check IETF RFC 7231 , 6585 , 4918 ) .
Several HTTP status codes ( 422-429 ) from the Client Error class let the Trojan know what the operators want to do .
After the control server sends the status “ Payment Required ” ( 402 ) , all these previously received commands are executed .
The authors keep the RSA public key and unique HTTP ETag in encrypted configuration data .
Created for web content caching reasons , this marker could also be used to filter unwanted requests to the C2 .
Those that are from network scanners rather than targets .
Besides the aforementioned RSA public key to communicate with the C2 , the malware also uses a self-generated AES-128 key .
We should mention here once again that the COMPfun malware was initially documented by G-DATA in 2014 ;
 And although the company did not identify which APT was using the malware .
Based mostly on victimology , we were able to associate it with the Turla APT with medium-to-low level of confidence .
Its functions include the ability to acquire the target ’s geolocation , gathering host- and network-related data , keylogging and screenshots .
In other words , it ’s a normal full-fledged Trojan that is also capable of propagating itself to removable devices .
As in previous malware from the same authors , all the necessary function addresses resolve dynamically to complicate analysis .
To exfiltrate the target ’s data to the C2 over HTTP/HTTPS , the malware uses RSA encryption .
To hide data locally , the Trojan implements LZNT1 compression and one-byte XOR encryption .
Encrypted data : Exfiltrated keystrokes , screenshots Configuration data in .rsrc section Parameters inside the HTTP GET/POST requests Commands and arguments from C2 for HTTP status 427 ( dir , upl , usb , net ) .
Algorithm : RSA XOR ( plus LZNT1 compression ) AES-128 ( plus ETag from config ) AES-128 .
Key source : Public key from configuration data Hardcoded one-byte key Generated by Trojan and shared in beacon Generated by Trojan and shared in beacon .
The first stage dropper was downloaded from the LAN shared directory .
The file name related to the visa application process perfectly corresponds with the targeted diplomatic entities .
As with all modules with a similar code base , the dropper begins by dynamically resolving all the required Windows API function addresses and puts them into structures .
It then decrypts the next stage malware from its resource ( .rsrc ) section .
The algorithm used to decrypt the next stage is a one-byte XOR using the key “ 0x55 ” , followed by LZNT1 decompression .
The following files are dropped to the disk in addition to the original application that the malware tries to mimic :
 MD5 hash : 1BB03CBAD293CA9EE3DDCE6F054FC325 A6AFA05CBD04E9AF256D278E5B5AD050 .
File name : ieframe.dll.mui ExplorerFrame.dll.mui .
Features : 64-bit Trojan version 32-bit Trojan version .
The dropper urges users to run the file as administrator ( using messages such as “ need to run as admin ” ) , then drops a version corresponding to the host ’s architecture and sets the file system timestamp to 2013.12.20 22:31 .
Interestingly , the dropper ’s abilities aren’t limited to PE lures ; as an alternative , this stage is also able to use .doc and .pdf files .
In such cases , the dropper will open the files using the “ open ” shell command instead of running the legitimate spoofed executable application .
Main module – HTTP status-based Trojan .
710b0fafe5fd7b3d817cf5c22002e46e2a22470cf3894eb619f805d43759b5a3 a6afa05cbd04e9af256d278e5b5ad050 2015.06.26 09:42:27 ( GMT ) I386 Windows GUI DLL 593408 ExplorerFrame.dll.mui .
The analysis below is based on the 32-bit sample from the table above .
The legitimate ExplorerFrame.dll.mui is a language resource for the ExplorerFrame.dll file used by Windows Explorer .
As usual in this malware family ’s code , a huge number of short standalone functions return all the readable strings .
This is done to complicate analysis by not allowing the strings to be visible at a glance for researchers .
The module ’s preparation stage dynamically resolves all required Windows API function addresses into corresponding custom structures .
Afterwards the malware uses indirect function calls only .
The module obtains the processor architecture ( 32- or 64-bit ) and Windows OS version .
It includes a number of anti-analysis checks for virtual machine-related devices ( VEN_VMWARE , VBOX_HARDDISK , Virtual_DVD_ROM , etc . )
to avoid controlled execution .
It also notes which security products are running on the host ( Symantec , Kaspersky , Dr.Web , Avast ) .
Before every communication with the C2 , the malware checks if software such as debuggers ( WinDbg , OllyDbg , Visual Studio ) and host ( Process Explorer or Monitor , etc . )
or network monitoring ( Wireshark , TCPView , etc . )
programs are running .
It also checks for internet connectivity and does not attempt to communicate if the checks fail .
The DLL also checks for potentially available launch processes that it can inject itself into .
In the case of PaymentRequired , this could be system , security product or browser processes .
Then the malware forms the corresponding code to drop files , delete files , etc .
The last step in the initialization procedure is to decrypt and decompress the configuration file .
Decryption is done via a one-byte XOR using the 0xAA key , followed by decompression using the LZNT1 algorithm .
From the configuration , the malware parses the RSA public key , ETag and IP addresses to communicate with its control servers .
Firstly , the module generates the following :
 AES-128 encryption key used in HTTP GET/POST parameters and HTTP status code 427 ( request new command ) ;
 4-byte unique hardware ID ( HWID ) based on the host network adapters , CPU and first fixed logical drive serial number .
The module then chooses a process to inject the code into , in order of decreasing priority , starting from Windows ( cmd.exe , smss.exe ) , security-related applications ( Symantec ’s nis.exe , Dr.Web ’s spideragent.exe ) and browsers ( IE , Opera , Firefox , Yandex browser , Chrome ) .
The main thread checks if the C2 supports TLS in its configuration .
If it does , communication will be over HTTPS and port 443 ; otherwise , the HTTP protocol and port 80 are used .
Config Parameter : Encryption key ETag C2 IPs .
Value : RSA public key on the image above C8E9CEAD2E084F58A94AEDC14D423E1A 95.183.49.10 95.183.49.29 200.63.45.35 .
The first GET request sent contains an ETag “ If-Match ” header that is built using data from its decrypted configuration .
ETags are normally used by web servers for caching purposes in order to be more efficient and save bandwidth by not resending redundant information if an ETag value matches .
The implementation of ETags means the C2 may ignore all requests that are not sent from its intended targets if they don’t have the required ETag value .
RFC status meaning : OK Payment Required Unprocessable Entity ( WebDAV ) Locked ( WebDAV ) Failed Dependency ( WebDAV ) Undefined HTTP status Precondition Required Too Many Requests .
Corresponding command functionality : Send collected target data to C2 with current tickcount This status is the signal to process received ( and stored in binary flag ) HTTP statuses as commands Uninstall .
Delete COM-hijacking persistence and corresponding files on disk Install .
Create COM-hijacking persistence and drop corresponding files to disk Fingerprint target .
Send host , network and geolocation data Get new command into IEA94E3.tmp file in %TEMP% , decrypt and execute appended command Propagate self to USB devices on target Enumerate network resources on target .
HTTP 427 can receive any of the following appended commands :
 Command functionality : Send directory content to C2 encrypted with RSA public key from config Send file to C2 encrypted with RSA public key from config Not implemented yet .
Possibly same function planned as for HTTP status 428 Not implemented yet .
Possibly same function planned as for HTTP status 429 .
If initialization is successful , the malware starts one more thread for dispatching Windows messages , looking for removable devices related to a WM_DEVICECHANGE event .
The module runs its own handlers in the event of a USB device being plugged into or unplugged from the host .
The user ’s activity is monitored using several hooks .
All of them gather the target ’s data independently of any C2 command .
Keystrokes are encrypted using the RSA public key stored in the configuration data and sent once every two seconds , or when moreа than 512 bytes are recorded .
These 512 characters also include left mouse button clicks ( written as the “ MSLBTN ” string ) and Windows title bar texts .
For clipboard content , the module calculates an MD5 hash and if it changes , encrypts the clipboard content with the same RSA public key and then sends it .
In a separate thread , the Trojan takes a bitmap screenshot using the GDIPlus library , compresses it with the LZNT1 algorithm , encrypts it using the key from the configuration data and sends it to the control server .
A screenshot will be taken of the target and sent anyway , independently of any C2 command .
There are several choices – albeit not major additional technical ones – that the malware author made which we consider to be noteworthy .
The COM-hijacking-based persistence method injects its corresponding code and structure as a parameter into a legitimate process ’s memory .
The malware geolocates victims using legitimate web services : geoplugin.net/json.gp , ip-api.com/json and telize.com/geoip .
The unusual thread synchronization timeout calculation in the HTTP status thread is peculiar .
Mathematically , the partial sum of the series is precisely :
 We saw innovative approaches from the COMpfun developers twice in 2019 .
First , they bypassed TLS encrypted traffic via PRNG system function patching , and then we observed a unique implementation of C2 communications using uncommon HTTP status codes .
The malware operators retained their focus on diplomatic entities and the choice of a visa-related application – stored on a directory shared within the local network – as the initial infection vector worked in their favor .
The combination of a tailored approach to their targets and the ability to generate and execute their ideas certainly makes the developers behind COMPFun a strong offensive team .
File MD5 Hashes : A6AFA05CBD04E9AF256D278E5B5AD050 1BB03CBAD293CA9EE3DDCE6F054FC325 .
IPs : 95.183.49.10 95.183.49.29 200.63.45.35 .
