Titanium: the Platinum group strikes again
Release_Time : 2019-11-08
Report_URL :  https://securelist.com/titanium-the-platinum-group-strikes-again/94961/
Platinum is one of the most technologically advanced APT actors with a traditional focus on the APAC region .
During recent analysis we discovered Platinum using a new backdoor that we call Titanium ( named after a password to one of the self-executable archives ) .
Titanium is the final result of a sequence of dropping , downloading and installing stages .
The malware hides at every step by mimicking common software .
During our research we found that the main targets of this campaign were located in South and Southeast Asia .
The Titanium APT includes a complex sequence of dropping , downloading and installing stages , with deployment of a Trojan-backdoor as the final step .
In every case the default distribution is : 
An exploit capable of executing code as a SYSTEM user .
A shellcode to download the next downloader .
A downloader to download an SFX archive that contains a Windows task installation script .
A password-protected SFX archive with a Trojan-backdoor installer .
An installer script ( ps1 ) .
A COM object DLL ( a loader ) .
The Trojan-backdoor itself .
We believe the Titanium APT uses local intranet websites with a malicious code to start spreading .
Another known way of spreading is the use of a shellcode that needs to be injected into a process .
In this case it was winlogon.exe .
Attackers make active use of various kinds of ‘ wrappers ’ .
Each wrapper is usually a COM DLL , with the corresponding exported functions .
The main purpose of these libraries is to decrypt and load an encrypted file ( previously dropped somewhere ) into the system memory ( a payload ) and then redirect calls to the wrapper itself to the payload ’s exported functions .
Another type of wrapper DLL is designed to obtain a command line from its exported function argument passed by a caller and create a new process .
This is a password-encrypted SFX archive that can be downloaded via BITS Downloader .
The password is hardcoded into the downloader that is used to decrypt the SFX archive using the -p command line argument .
The main feature of this archive is that it contains the cURL executable code , compiled into a DLL .
Its purpose is to install the Windows task to establish persistence in the infected system .
The backdoor itself uses an SFX archive which must be launched from the command line using a password to unpack it .
All paths examples here and there will be for the DVD making software .
However , these notes can be also applied to any other known software paths .
The BITS Downloader is used to download encrypted files from the C&C server then decrypt and launch them .
The shellcode itself contains position-independent code and doesn’t require previously loaded libraries ( except Kernel32.dll ) .
Its sole purpose is to connect to the hardcoded C&C address , download an encrypted payload ( the password-protected SFX archive ) , then decrypt and launch it using the hardcoded unpacking password .
The usual command line is : 
"rundll32 "$temp\IOZwXLeM023.tmp" ,GetVersionInfo -t 06xwsrdrub2i84n6map3li3vz3h9bh4vfgcw" .
The BITS Downloader is a DLL file which has only one exported function : GetVersionInfoA .
The main purpose of this library is to download files in encrypted form from the C&C and launch them .
The first thing the downloader does is to check whether it was started using the SYSTEM user .
If it was , it launches command line arguments ( that were passed to the binary loaded by the downloader DLL ) using WMI .
If it wasn’t started using the SYSTEM user , the downloader passes command line arguments into the argument parser .
-c URL	Specifies a URL address where system information will be sent .
-t STRING	An additional string that will be appended to a request string to the C&C .
-u URL	Confirmation URL where the downloader will send various confirmations or request data .
Possible to build in two additional confirmation URLs .
-br GUID	Stop a payload downloading .
The GUID parameter must provide a download task GUID .
If one of these parameters exists , the downloader will collect information about installed antivirus products and send it to the C&C .
After that , it sends the download request to the confirmation URL .
In response , the C&C sends a file that will be downloaded in the %USERPROFILE% directory .
Default ( hardcoded ) URL : http://70.39.115.196/payment/confirm.gif .
The request is a string such as : 
http://70.39.115.196/payment/confirm.gif?f=1 .
http://70.39.115.196/payment/confirm.gif?f=2 .
The downloader checks the hash field against a calculated MD5 of the data field hash , and if the hash is correct , performs the following actions : 
Appends an extension ( DLL or EXE , depending on data type ) .
Stores the downloaded file in the %TMP% folder using the name % (SystemTimeAsFileTime.dwLowDateTime ).%TMP .
Then the downloader specifies a command line to launch the downloaded file .
If the file is a DLL , the final command line will be : 
"%systemroot%\system32\rundll32.exe % (SystemTimeAsFileTime.dwLowDateTime )%.TMP ,-peuwewh383eg -t 06xwsrdrub2i84n6map3li3vz3h9bh4vfgcw" .
If the file is an EXE file : 
% (SystemTimeAsFileTime.dwLowDateTime )%.TMP -peuwewh383eg -t 06xwsrdrub2i84n6map3li3vz3h9bh4vfgcw .
After that , the downloader deletes itself using the following command line : 
/c for /L %i in ( 1,1,100 ) do ( for /L %k in ( 1,1,100 ) do ( del /f /q module_path > NUL & if not exist module_path exit /b 0 ) ) .
To launch the downloaded file , the downloader uses the WMI classes Win32_ProcessStartup , Win32_Process and their methods and fields .
To download a file , the downloader uses the BITS service and its COM interface , called IBackgroundCopyManager .
It creates a task with the name Microsoft Download , then specifies remote and local file paths and timeouts .
p.bat	Launches cURL and obfuscated ps1 scripts .
c.dll	cURL executable compiled as a DLL ( 7.50.3 ) .
f1.ps1	Will be executed after the first request to the C&C ; decrypts x.dat .
f2.ps1	Will be executed after the second request to the C&C ; decrypts b.dat .
e.ps1	Contains code that calculates a string for the Authorization field of the HTTP header .
h.ps1	Gets information about the system proxy settings .
e.dll	A DLL file with a single exported function ; calls CreateProcessA .
x.dat	u.xml	AES-encrypted file ( see f1.ps1 for decryption algorithm ) .
b.dat	i.bat	AES-encrypted file ( the same decryption algorithm ) .
i.bat	Performs Windows task installation .
-pKEY	Argument with a key to unpack the SFX archive .
-t ACCEPTANCE_ID_STRING	Argument with a long string – AcceptanceID ( used in requests to the C&C ) .
p.bat launches the h.ps1 script to get information about system-wide proxy settings .
After that it launches the e.ps1 script to calculate the SystemID that will be used in requests to the C&C .
To send a request , it uses c.dll ( which is cURL and has an exported function called DllGetClassObject ) .
%pp%	System-wide proxy .
%output%	SystemID .
%p3%	AcceptanceID .
This request downloads the x.dat file , and the f1.ps1 script decrypts it into u.xml .
It downloads the b.dat file , and the f2.ps1 script decrypts it into i.bat ( using the same decryption algorithm ) .
The i.bat file uses the previously decrypted u.xml file as the task description .
BabyBoyStyleBackground.wmv	Configuration data .
DvDupdate.dll	Trojan-backdoor loader .
nav_downarrow.png	Trojan-backdoor .
psinstrc.ps1	Loader installation script .
In the case of the audio drivers software mimic , it differs only in its installation method compared to DVD making software : the ps1 script uses two known CLSIDs to replace their COM DLL paths with malicious ones .
psinstrc.ps1 is the installer script that registers DvDupdate.dll as the ‘ DVDMaker Help ’ service , and sets its entry point as the DllGetClassObject name .
There are two ways the loader can be installed : 
System service , with the DllGetClassObject exported function as the ServiceMain function .
COM object , by replacing an existing CLSID registry path with its own .
DvDupadte.dll is a service DLL , but with all the same exports you would expect from a COM object .
Basically , it ’s a payload loader .
The whole code is obfuscated with different Windows API calls and loops .
It wasn’t designed to confuse a reverse engineer or to make reverse engineering harder , but to bypass some simple AV emulation engines .
The first exported function for every COM object is DllGetClassObject .
The loader creates a thread that decrypts the payload , restores its PE and MZ headers , and then loads it into memory and launches it .
The payload is encrypted with AES 256 CBC .
The decryption key is hardcoded along with other encrypted strings .
It doesn’t contain ‘ MZ ‘ and ‘ PE ‘ tags that allow it to bypass simple AV engines .
After initializing the payload , the loader calls its function with ordinal 1 .
The payload , with backdoor functionality , is a DLL file .
The malware functionality is in the first exported entry only .
The first thing that it does is decrypt the other encrypted binary ( containing configuration data ) from the SFX content .
The execution thread is responsible for receiving commands from the C&C server and sending responses .
It contains an execution loop that starts by reading configuration item #00 to get the C&C address .
To initialize the connection to the C&C , the payload sends a base64-encoded request that contains a unique SystemID , computer name , and hard disk serial number .
After that , the malware starts receiving commands .
To receive commands from the C&C , the payload sends an empty request to the C&C .
It uses the UserAgent string from the configuration and a special cookie generation algorithm to prepare a request .
The malware can also get proxy settings from Internet Explorer .
In response to this request , the C&C answers with a PNG file that contains steganographically hidden data .
This data is encrypted with the same key as the C&C requests .
The decrypted data contains backdoor commands and arguments for them .
The backdoor can accept many different commands , with the following among the most interesting : 
Read any file from a file system and send it to the C&C .
Drop or delete a file in the file system .
Drop a file and run it .
Run a command line and send execution results to the C&C .
Update configuration parameters ( except the AES encryption key ) .
Interactive mode – allows to the attacker to receive input from console programs and send their output at the C&C .
The Titanium APT has a very complicated infiltration scheme .
It involves numerous steps and requires good coordination between all of them .
In addition , none of the files in the file system can be detected as malicious due to the use of encryption and fileless technologies .
One other feature that makes detection harder is the mimicking of well-known software .
Regarding campaign activity , we have not detected any current activity related to the Titanium APT .
