APT28: AT THE CENTER OF THE STORM
Release_Time :  JANUARY 2017
Report_URL : https://www2.fireeye.com/rs/848-DID-242/images/APT28-Center-of-Storm-2017.pdf
As news of the DNC breach spread , APT28 was preparing for another set of operations : countering the condemnation that Russia was facing after doping allegations and a threatened blanket ban of the Russian team from the upcoming Rio Games .
Russia , like many nations , has long viewed success in the Olympic Games as a source of national prestige and soft power on the world stage .
The doping allegations and prospective ban from the Games further ostracized Russia , and likely provided motivation to actively counter the allegations by attempting to discredit anti-doping agencies and policies .
Our investigation of APT28 ’s compromise of WADA ’s network , and our observations of the surrounding events reveal how Russia sought to counteract a damaging narrative and delegitimize the institutions leveling criticism .
NOV ( 2015 ) WADA declares the Russian Anti-Doping Agency ( RUSADA ) noncompliant .
JULY 18 WADA-commissioned report documents evidence of Russian athletes ’ widespread doping .
AUG 4 Russian athletes were barred from competing in the Olympic Games .
EARLY AUG APT28 sends spear phishing emails to WADA employees .
AUG 10 APT28 uses a legitimate user account belonging to a Russian athlete to log into WADA ’s AntiDoping Administration and Management System ( ADAMS ) database .
AUG 25-SEP 12 APT28 gains access to an International Olympic Committee account created specifically for the 2016 Olympic Games , and views and downloads athlete data .
AUG 9 The actor  @anpoland , purporting to  represent “ Anonymous Poland , ” claims to have defaced the  WADA website .
AUG 11 On August 11  @anpoland threatens to conduct a DDoS attack against and leak data from WADA ,but fails to follow through on the threats .
SEP 12 “ Fancy Bears ’ Hack Team ” , a previously unknown group purporting to be affiliated with Anonymous , claims via Twitter to have compromised WADA , and directs readers to a website hosting stolen documents .
In tweets to international journalists and  Twitter accounts  that disseminate hacktivist and information security news , “ Fancy Bears ’ Hack Team ” claims to have “ proof of American athletes taking doping. ” 
SEP 13 WADA releases a statement confirming the breach and attributes the compromise and  theft of athlete medical data  to APT28 .
SEP 15-30 “ Fancy Bears ’ Hack Team ” releases five additional batches of medical files for high-profile athletes from multiple nations , including the U.S. , which had applied for and received Therapeutic Use Exemptions ( TUEs ) for medications otherwise banned from competition .
Claiming to support “ fair play and clean sport , ” Fancy Bears ’ Hack team calls TUEs “ licenses for doping. ” 
Based on this timeline of leak and threatened leak activity , as well as strikingly similar characteristics and distribution methods shared between @anpoland and “ Fancy Bears ’ Hack Team , ” the same operators are highly likely behind the two personas .
WADA officials , citing evidence provided by law enforcement , stated that the threat activity originated in Russia , possibly in retaliation for WADA ’s exposure of Russia ’s expansive , state-run doping .
The statement prompted denials from the Russian Government , with Russian sports minister  Vitaly Mutko asking , “ How can you prove that the hackers are Russian?
You blame Russia for everything ,  it is very in fashion now. ” 
In our 2014 report , we identified APT28 as a suspected Russian government-sponsored espionage actor .
We came to this conclusion in part based on forensic details left in the malware that APT28 had employed since at least 2007 .
We have provided an updated version of those conclusions , a layout of the tactics that they generally employ , as well as observations of apparent tactical shifts .
For full details , please reference our 2014 report , APT28: A Window into Russia ’s Cyber Espionage Operations?
APT28 employs a suite of malware with features indicative of the group ’s plans for continued operations , as well as the group ’s access to resources and skilled developers .
CHOPSTICK backdoor Xagent , webhp , SPLM , ( .v2 fysbis ) .
EVILTOSS backdoor Sedreco , AZZY , Xagent , ADVSTORESHELL , NETUI .
GAMEFISH backdoor Sednit , Seduploader , JHUHUGIT , Sofacy .
SOURFACE downloader Older version of CORESHELL , Sofacy .
We have observed APT28 rely on four key tactics when attempting  to compromise intended targets .
These include sending spear-phishing emails that either deliver exploit documents that deploy malware onto a user ’s systems , or contain a malicious URL designed to harvest the recipients ’ email credentials and provide access to the their accounts .
APT28 has also compromised and placed malware on legitimate websites intending to infect site visitors , and has gained access to organizations by compromising their web-facing servers
