LeetMX
Release_Time :  2017-5-14 .
Report_URL :  https://www.clearskysec.com/iec/ .
Attackers have been trying to breach IEC ( Israel Electric Company ) in a year-long campaign .
From April 2016 until at least February 2017 ,  attackers have been spreading malware via fake Facebook profiles and pages , breached websites , self-hosted and cloud based websites .
Various artifacts indicate that the main target of this campaign is IEC – Israel Electric Company .
These include domains , file names , Java package names ,  and Facebook activity .
We dubbed this campaign “ Operation Electric Powder “ .
Israel Electric Company ( also known as Israel Electric Corporation ) “ is the largest supplier of electrical power in Israel .
The IEC builds , maintains , and operates power generation stations , sub-stations , as well as transmission and distribution networks .
The company is the sole integrated electric utility in the State of Israel .
It installed generating capacity represents about 75% of the total electricity production capacity in the country.
It is notable that the operational level and the technological sophistication of the attackers are not high .
Also , they are having hard time preparing decoy documents and websites in Hebrew and English .
Therefore , in most cases a vigilant target should be able to notice the attack and avoid infection .
We do not have indication that the attacks succeeded in infecting IEC related computers or stealing information .
Currently we do not know who is behind Operation Electric Powder or what its objectives are .
See further discussion in the Attribution section .
The attackers registered and used in multiple attacks the domain ynetnewes.com ( note the extra e ) .
This domain impersonates ynetnews.com , the English version of ynet.co.il – one of Israel ’s most popular news sites .
Certain pages within the domain would load the legitimate Ynet website .
Others , which are opened as decoy during malware infection , had copied content from a different news site .
The URL ynetnewes.com/video/Newfilm.html contained an article about Brad Pitt and Marion Cotillard copied from another site .
At the bottom was a link saying “ Here For Watch It ! ” .
The link pointed to goo.gl/zxhJxu ( Google ’s URL shortening service ) .
According to the statistics page , it had been created on September 25 , 2016 and have been clicked only 11 times .
When clicked , it would redirect to iecr.co/info/index_info.php .
We do not know what was the content in the final URL .
We estimate that it served malware .
The domain iecr.co was used as a command and control server for other malware in this campaign .
Another URL ,http://ynetnewes.com/resources/assets/downloads/svchost.exe ，hosted a malware file called program_stream_film_for_watch.exe .
One of the above mentioned malicious URLs was spread via comments by a fake Facebook profile – Linda Santos ( no longer available ) .
In September 2016 , the fake profile commented to posts by Israel Electric Company .
The profile had dozens of friends , almost all were IEC employees .
The fake profile was following only three pages , one of which was the IEC official page .
In July 2016 , when mobile game “ Pokemon Go ” was at the peak of its popularity , the attackers created a Facebook page impersonating the official Pokemon Go page .
The page , which is no longer available , had about one hundred followers – most were Arab Israelis and some were Jewish Israelis .
Only one post was published , with text in English and Hebrew .
Grammatical mistakes indicate the attackers are not native to both languages .
The post linked to a malicious website hosted in yolasite.com ( which is a legitimate website building and hosting platform ) : pokemonisrael.yolasite.com .
The button – “ To download phone and computer ” linked to a zip file in another website : http://iec-co-il.com/iec/electricity/Pokemon-PC.zip
Note that the domain being impersonated is that of Israel Electric Company ’s website ( iec.co.il ) .
Pokemon-PC.zip contained Pokemon-PC.exe , which at run time drops monitar.exe .
The attackers also distributed a malicious app for Android devices – pokemon.apk .
This malware also had characteristics that impersonate IEC , such as the package name .
The application is a dropper that extracts and installs a spyware .
The dropper does not ask for any permission during installation .
However , when the spyware is installed ,  it asks for multiple sensitive permissions .
The victim ends up with two applications installed on their device .
The Dropper , pretending to be a Pokemon Go app , adds an icon to the phone dashboard .
However , it does not have any functionality , and when clicked , this error message is displayed : Error 505.Sorry , this version is not compatible with your android version .
The dropper does not really check what android version is installed .
The message is intended to make the victim believe that the Pokemon game does not work because of compatibility issues .
The victim is likely to uninstall the application at this point .
However , because a second application was installed , the phone would stay infected unless it is uninstalled as well .
Malware was also hosted in legitimate breached Israeli websites , such as this educational website : http://www.bagrut3.org.il/upload/edu_shlishit/passwordlist.exe .
and a small law firm ’s website : http://sheinin.co.il/MyPhoto.zip .
In journey-in-israel.com , the attackers inserted an exploit code for CVE-2014-6332 – a Windows code execution vulnerability .
The exploit was copied from an online source , likely from here , as the code included the same comments .
The website also hosted this malware .
In other cases , the attackers registered and built malicious websites : users-management.com and sourcefarge.net ( similar to legitimate software website sourceforge.net ) .
The latter was redirecting to journey-in-israel.com and iec-co-il.com in May and July 2016 , according to PassiveTotal .
potentially only a test file , is a self-extracting archive ( SFX ) that contains two files : a legitimate Putty installation and link.html .
When run , while putty is installed , the html file is opened in a browser and redirects to http://tinyurl.com/jerhz2a and then to http://users-management.com/info/index_info.php?id=9775 .
The last page 302 redirects to the website of an Israeli office supply company Mafil .
also a self-extracting archive , contained a decoy PDF document and a backdoor .
The PDF , named IEC.pdf , is a warranty document taken from Mafil ’s public website .
It is displayed to the victim while the malware is infecting its computer .
The attackers developed three malware types for Windows based computers : 
Dropper – self-extracting archives that extract and run the backdoor , sometimes while opening a decoy PDF document or website
Trojan backdoor / downloader –  malware that collects information about the system and can download and execute other files.Some samples had two hardcoded command and control servers : iecrs.co and iecr.co ( note once again the use of IEC in the domain name )
Keylogger / screen grabber – records keystrokes and takes screenshots .
The malware file is compiled Python code .
An analysis of the malware and other parts of the campaign was published by Mcafee in on November 11 , 2016 .
The latest known sample in this campaign has compilation timestamp of February 12 , 2017 .
It is dropped when “ pdf file products israel electric.exe ” is executed .
In a report that covers other parts of the campaign , Mcafee attribute it to Gaza Cybergang ( AKA Gaza Hacker Team AKA  Molerats ) .
However , the report does not present strong evidence to support this conclusion .
While initially we thought the same , currently we cannot relate Operation Electric Powder to any known group .
Moreover , besides Mohamad potentially being the name of the malware developer ( based on PDB string found in multiple samples :  C:\Users\Mohammed.MU\Desktop\AM\programming\C\tsDownloader\Release\tsDownloader.pdb ) , we do not have evidence that the attackers are Arabs .
Indicators file :  Operation-Electric-Powder-indicators.csv ( also available on PassiveTotal ).Notably , all but one of the IP addresses in use by the attackers belong to German IT services provider “ Accelerated IT Services GmbH ” ( AS31400 ) : 
84.200.32.211
84.200.2.76
84.200.17.123
84.200.68.97
82.211.30.212
82.211.30.186
82.211.30.192 .
Florian Roth shared a Yara rule to detect the downloader : Operation-Electric-Powder-yara.txt .
The graph below depicts the campaign infrastructure ( click the image to see the full graph ) .
Live samples can be downloaded from the following link : https://ln.sync.com/dl/30e722bf0#f72zgiwk-zxcp3e9t-fa9jyakr-zpbf5hgg .
( Please email info@clearskysec.com to get the password ) .
This research was facilitated by PassiveTotal for threat infrastructure analysis , and by MalNet for malware research .
