The Shadows of Ghosts: Inside the Response of a Unique Carbanak Intrusion
Release_Time :  2017-12-4 .
Report_URL :  https://community.rsa.com/community/products/netwitness/blog/2017/12/04/anatomy-of-an-attack-carbanak .
RSA Incident Response and Discovery Practice ( RSA IR ) analysts spend a significant amount of time engaged in the research , hunting , and effective response of advanced and persistent actors .
A customer engagement early-to-mid-2017 is an excellent example of a unique case in which RSA IR successfully responded to an intrusion perpetrated by the threat actor group CARBANAK , also known as FIN7 .
The CARBANAK actions illustrated in this post and associated paper were observed with other RSA clients as recently as November 2017 , with the methods and intelligence supplied by these publications having been used successfully to detect and track attacker activities .
Several intrusions associated with the CARBANAK actors have been reported within the last year , describing compromises of organizations within banking , financial , hospitality , and restaurant verticals .
However , they all describe a relatively equivalent progression , with only slight deviation in specific attacker actions .
The intelligence surrounding recent CARBANAK incidents indicate that phishing attacks have been the group ’s primary method of initial compromise .
After gaining access to a user system , the attackers move laterally throughout the environment , conduct internal reconnaissance , establish staging points and internal network paths , harvest credentials , and move towards their intended target .
However , this intrusion began with a significantly higher level of privilege due to the exploitation of the Apache Struts vulnerability CVE-2017-5638 allowing the attackers to quickly gain administrative access within the client ’s Linux environment .
The ingress , lateral movement , and internal reconnaissance mechanisms used by the attackers during this investigation were not that sophisticated in and of themselves .
However , when viewed in aggregate , and from an operational view , RSA observed the actors normalized their choice in toolset across the Linux and Windows environments .
The attackers in this engagement primarily used modified versions of legitimate administrative tools , commonly used penetration testing utilities , and common network file acquisition tools .
Though specialty malware was observed during this intrusion , the attackers used basic XOR encoding just above Layer 4 to facilitate communication , communicated via SSH tunnel directly over TCP/443 , or just transmitted and received data in clear text across the network .
RSA IR released a white paper containing an in-depth review of this engagement , including observed attacker operational patterns , TTPs , and the techniques used during this engagement to successfully track and respond to the threat .
The observations illustrated in this paper identify that not only do CARBANAK actors have the capability to successfully compromise various operating system environments , they have standardized and operationalized this capability .
This attribute indicates strategic operational thought and effort being invested in this group ’s compromises , suggesting that the CARBANAK actors are working towards becoming a more organized , structured , resourceful , and mature threat group .
The CARBANAK actors not only showed the capability to successfully compromise both Linux and Windows systems , they chose a toolset that was either directly cross-platform or extremely similar in both function and command line usage .
This indicates a level of tactical organization and operationalization not previously observed by this actor group .
Additionally , they were significantly cognizant and aware of actions taken by the security team , switching to new methods of ingress after initial compromise , detected remediation actions , and environmental migration .
