APT28
Release_Time :  2015 .
Report_URL :  https://www.fireeye.com/content/dam/fireeye-www/global/en/current-threats/pdfs/rpt-apt28.pdf
Our clients often ask us to assess the threat Russia poses in cyberspace .
Russia has long been a whispered frontrunner among capable nations for performing sophisticated network operations .
This perception is due in part to the Russian government ’s alleged involvement in the cyber attacks accompanying its invasion of Georgia in 2008 , as well as the rampant speculation that Moscow was behind a major U.S. Department of Defense network compromise , also in 2008 .
These rumored activities , combined with a dearth of hard evidence , have made Russia into something of a phantom in cyberspace .
In this paper we discuss a threat group whose malware is already fairly well-known in the cybersecurity community .
This group , unlike the China-based threat actors we track , does not appear to conduct widespread intellectual property theft for economic gain .
Nor have we observed the group steal and profit from financial account information .
The activity that we profile in this paper appears to be the work of a skilled team of developers and operators collecting intelligence on defense and geopolitical issues – intelligence that would only be useful to a government .
We believe that this is an advanced persistent threat ( APT ) group engaged in espionage against political and military targets including the country of Georgia , Eastern European governments and militaries , and European security organizations since at least 2007 .
They compile malware samples with Russian language settings during working hours consistent with the time zone of Russia ’s major cities , including Moscow and St. Petersburg .
While we don’t have pictures of a building , personas to reveal , or a government agency to name , what we do have is evidence of long-standing , focused operations that indicate a government sponsor – specifically , a government based in Moscow .
We are tracking this group as APT28 .
APT28 targets insider information related to governments , militaries , and security organizations that would likely benefit the Russian government .
APT28 likely seeks to collect intelligence about Georgia ’s security and political dynamics by targeting officials working for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Defense .
APT28 has demonstrated interest in Eastern European governments and security organizations .
These victims would provide the Russian government with an ability to predict policymaker intentions and gauge its ability to influence public opinion .
APT28 appeared to target individuals affiliated with European security organizations and global multilateral institutions .
The Russian government has long cited European security organizations like NATO and the OSCE as existential threats , particularly during
Since 2007 , APT28 has systematically evolved its malware , using flexible and lasting platforms indicative of plans for long-term use .
The coding practices evident in the group ’s malware suggest both a high level of skill and an interest in complicating reverse engineering efforts .
Many of APT28 ’s targets align generally with interests that are typical of any government .
However , three themes in APT28 ’s targeting clearly reflects areas of specific interest to an Eastern European government , most likely the Russian government .
These include the Caucasus ( especially the Georgian government ) , Eastern European governments and militaries , and specific security organizations .
APT28 uses spearphishing emails to target its victims , a common tactic in which the threat group crafts its emails to mention specific topics ( lures ) relevant to recipients .
This increases the likelihood that recipients will believe that the email is legitimate and will be interested in opening the message , opening any attached files , or clicking on a link in the body of the email .
Since spearphishing lures are tailored to the recipients whose accounts APT28 hopes to breach , the subjects of the lures provide clues as to APT28 ’s targets and interests .
For example , if the group ’s lures repeatedly refer to the Caucasus , then this most likely indicates that APT28 is trying to gain access to the accounts of individuals whose work pertains to the Caucasus .
Similarly , APT28 ’s practice of registering domains that mimic those of legitimate news , politics , or other websites indicates topics that are relevant to APT28 ’s targets .
We identified three themes in APT28 ’s lures and registered domains , which together are particularly relevant to the Russian government .
In addition to these themes , we have seen APT28 target a range of political and military organizations .
We assess that the work of these organizations serves nation state governments .
The Caucasus , a region that includes Chechnya and other Russian republics and the independent states of Georgia , Armenia , and Azerbaijan , continues to experience political unrest .
The Georgian government ’s posture and ties to the West are a frequent source of Moscow ’s frustration , particularly after the 2008 war .
Overall , issues in the Caucasus likely serve as focal points for Russian intelligence collection efforts .
APT28 INTEREST IN THE CAUCASUS , PARTICULARLY GEORGIA Since 2011 , APT28 has used lures written in Georgian that are probably intended to target Georgian government agencies or citizens .
APT28 is likely seeking information on Georgia ’s security and diplomatic postures .
Specifically , the group has targeted the Georgian Ministry of Internal Affairs ( MIA ) and the Ministry of Defense ( MOD ) .
We also observed efforts to target a journalist working on issues in the Caucasus and a controversial Chechen news site .
