Platinum is back .		threatActor_name others others others
Release_Time : 2019-06-05 Report_URL : https://securelist.com/platinum-is-back/91135/  In June 2018 , we came across an unusual set of samples spreading throughout South and Southeast Asian countries targeting diplomatic , government and military entities .		others others others others others others others others others time time others others others others others others others others others others others location location location location location others government others government others government government others
The campaign , which may have started as far back as 2012 , featured a multi-stage approach and was dubbed EasternRoppels .		others others others others others others others others others others others time others others others others others others others others attack_activity others
The actor behind this campaign , believed to be related to the notorious PLATINUM APT group , used an elaborate , previously unseen steganographic technique to conceal communication .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others threatActor_name others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
As a first stage the operators used WMI subscriptions to run an initial PowerShell downloader which , in turn , downloaded another small PowerShell backdoor .		others others others others others person others tool others others others others others tool tool others others others others others others others others malware malware others
We collected many of the initial WMI PowerShell scripts and noticed that they had different hardcoded command and control ( C&C ) IP addresses , different encryption keys , salt for encryption ( also different for each initial loader ) and different active hours ( meaning the malware only worked during a certain period of time every day ) .		others others others others others others tool tool others others others others others others others others tool tool tool others tool tool tool others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
The C&C addresses were located on free hosting services , and the attackers made heavy use of a large number of Dropbox accounts ( for storing the payload and exfiltrated data ) .		others tool tool tool others others others others others others others others others others person others others others others others others others others tool tool others others attack_goal attack_goal attack_goal attack_goal attack_goal attack_goal others others
The purpose of the PowerShell backdoor was to perform initial fingerprinting of a system since it supported a very limited set of commands : download or upload a file and run a PowerShell script .		others others others others malware malware others others attack_goal attack_goal attack_goal attack_goal attack_goal attack_goal others others others others others others others others others others sub_activity sub_activity sub_activity sub_activity sub_activity others sub_activity sub_activity tool sub_activity others
At the time , we were investigating another threat , which we believe to be the second stage of the same campaign .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
We were able to find a backdoor that was implemented as a DLL and worked as a WinSock NSP ( Nameservice Provider ) to survive a reboot .		others others others others others others malware others others others others others tool others others others others tool tool others tool tool others others others others others others
The backdoor shares several features with the PowerShell backdoor described above : it has hardcoded active hours , it uses free domains as C&C addresses , etc .		others malware others others others others others malware malware others others others others others sample_function sample_function sample_function others others others others others others tool tool tool others others others others
The backdoor also has a few very interesting features of its own .		others malware others others others others others others others others others others others
For example , it can hide all communication with its C&C server by using text steganography .		others others others others others sample_function sample_function sample_function sample_function sample_function tool tool tool tool others others others others others
After deeper analysis we realized that the two threats were related .		others others others others others others others others others others others others
Among other things , both attacks used the same domain to store exfiltrated data , and we discovered that some of the victims were infected by both types of malware at the same time .		others others others others others others others others others others others attack_goal attack_goal attack_goal others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
It ’s worth mentioning that in the second stage , all executable files were protected with a runtime crypter and after unpacking them we found another , previously undiscovered , backdoor that is known to be related to PLATINUM .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others malware others others others others others others others threatActor_name others
Our paper only includes a description of the two previously undiscovered backdoors while the full report is available to customers of the Kaspersky Intelligence Reporting service ( contact intelreports@kaspersky.com ) .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others security_team security_team security_team security_team others others url url url others others
The main binary backdoor is installed with a dedicated dropper .		others others others malware others others others others others tool others
When the dropper is run , it decrypts files that are embedded into its “ .arch ” section .		others others tool others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
Next , it creates directories for the backdoor to operate in and saves the malware-related files in these .		others others others sample_function sample_function sample_function sample_function sample_function others others others others others others others others others others others
It normally uses paths like those used by legitimate software .		others others others others others others others others others others others
Typically , the malware drops two files : the backdoor itself and its configuration file .		others others others others others others others others others malware others others others others others others
After this , the dropper runs the backdoor , installs it to enable a persistence mechanism and removes itself .		others others others others tool others others malware others others others others others others others others others others others others
The configuration file always has a .cfg or .dat extension and contains the following options , encrypted with AES-256 CBC and encoded :  pr – stands for “ Poll Retries ” and specifies the interval in minutes after which the malware sends the C&C server a request for new commands to execute .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others encryption_algo encryption_algo others others others string others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others tool tool tool tool others others others others others others others others
ht – unused .		string others others others
sl – specifies the date and time when the malware starts running .		string others others others others others others others others others others others others
When the date arrives , the malware clears this option .		others others others others others others others others others others others
opt – stands for “ Office Hours ” .		string others others others others others others others others
This specifies the hours and minutes during the day when the malware is active .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
die – stands for “ Eradicate Days ” .		string others others others others others others others others
This specifies how many days the malware will work inside the victim ’s computer .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
Section “ p ” lists malware C&C addresses .		others others string others others others tool tool tool others others
Section “ t ” lists legitimate URLs that will be used to ensure that an internet connection is available .		others others string others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
The main backdoor is implemented as a dynamic link library ( DLL ) and exports a function with the name “ NSPStartup ” .		others malware malware others others others others others others others others tool others others others others others others others others others function others others
After dropping it , the installer registers the backdoor as a winsock2 namespace provider with the help of the WSCInstallNameSpace API function and runs it by calling the WSCEnableNSProvider .		others others others others others others others others malware others others others others others others others others others others function function others others others others others others others function others
As a result of this installation , during initialization of the “ svchost -k netsvcs ” process upon system startup , the registered namespace provider will be loaded into the address space of the process and the function “ NSPStartup ” will be called .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others function others others others others others
Once up and running , the backdoor compares the current time against the “ Eradicate Days ” , activation date and “ Office Hours ” values , and locates valid proxy credentials in “ Credential Store ” and “ Protected Storage ” .		others others others others others others malware others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
When all the rules are fulfilled , the backdoor connects to the malware server and downloads an HTML page .		others others others others others others others others malware others others others others others others others others tool others others
On the face of it , the HTML suggests that the C&C server is down .		others others others others others others others tool others others others tool tool tool tool others others others
However , this is because of the steganography .		others others others others others others others others others
The page contains embedded commands that are encrypted with an encryption key , also embedded into the page .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
The embedded data is encoded with two steganography techniques and placed inside the <--1234567890> tag ( see below ) .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
On line 31 , the attributes “ align ” , “ bgcolor ” , “ colspan ” and “ rowspan ” are listed in alphabetical order , whereas on line 32 , the same attributes are listed in a different order .		others others others others others others others string others others others string others others others string others others others string others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
The first steganography technique is based on the principle that HTML is indifferent to the order of tag attributes .		others others others others others others others others others others tool others others others others others others others others others
We can encode a message by permuting the attributes .		others others others others others others others others others others
Line 31 in the example above contains four tags ; the number of permutations in the four tags is 4 !		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
= 24 , so the line encodes log2 ( 24 ) = 4 bits of information .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
The backdoor decodes line by line and collects an encryption key for the data , which is placed right after the HTML tags in an encoded state too , but using a second steganography technique .		others malware others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others tool others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
Each group contains from zero to seven spaces and the number of spaces represents the next three bits of data .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
For example , the first group on line 944 contains six spaces , so it will be decoded as 610 = 1102 .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
Decryption of the decoded data using the decoded AES-256 CBC key is a logical continuation .		others others others others others others others others encryption_algo encryption_algo others others others others others others
The result is a list of commands to execute , protected the same way as the backdoor configuration file .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others malware others others others
The backdoor that we ’ve discovered supports the uploading , downloading and execution of files , it can handle requests for a process list and directory list , upgrade and uninstall itself and modify its configuration file .		others malware others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
Each command has its own parameters , e.g .		others others others others others others others others others
the C&C server that it requests to download or upload files , or split a file while uploading .		others tool tool tool tool others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
While investigating further , we found another tool that turned out to be a configuration manager – an executable whose purpose was to create configuration and command files for the backdoors .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others tool tool others others others others others others others sub_activity sub_activity others sub_activity sub_activity others others others others
The utility can configure more than 150 options .		others others others others others others others others others
The second command it supports is updatecfg , whose job was to put values specified by the operator into the configuration file .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
Also , the config manager supports Upload , Download , Execute , Search , UpdateConfig , AddKeyword , ChangeKeywordFile , ChangeKey , Upgrade and Uninstall commands .		others others others tool tool others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
After executing any of these it creates a command file , protected the same way as the configuration file , and stores it in the “ CommandDir ” directory ( the path is specified in the configuration , option 11 ) .		others others others others others others sample_function sample_function sample_function sample_function others others others others others others others others others others others sample_function sample_function sample_function sample_function sample_function sample_function sample_function sample_function others others others others others others others others others others others others others
As described in the ‘ Steganography backdoor ’ section , this backdoor doesn’t handle command files and doesn’t support commands such as ChangeKeywordFile and ChangeKey , so we figured that there was another backdoor , which made a pair with the config manager we had found .		others others others others others malware malware others others others others malware others others others others others others others others others others others others others others tool others tool others others others others others others others others malware others others others others others others others others others others others others others
Although it would appear such a utility should run on the attacker side , we found a victim infected with this and a corresponding backdoor located in the vicinity .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others malware others others others others others
We called it a P2P backdoor .		others others others others malware malware others
This backdoor shares many features with the previous one .		others malware others others others others others others others others
For example , many of the commands have similar names , both backdoors ’ configuration files have options with identical names and are protected the same way , and the paths to the backdoor files are similar to legitimate ones .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others malware others others others others others others others
However , there are significant differences , too .		others others others others others others others others others
The new backdoor actively uses many more of the options from the config , supports more commands , is capable of interacting with other infected victims and connecting them into a network ( see the “ Commands ” section for details ) , and works with the C&C server in a different way .		others others malware others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others sample_function sample_function sample_function sample_function sample_function others sample_function sample_function sample_function sample_function sample_function others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others tool tool tool tool others others others others others
In addition , this backdoor actively uses logging : we found a log file dating back to 2012 on one victim PC .		others others others others malware others others others others others others others others others others others others time others others others others others
This backdoor has the ability to sniff network traffic .		others malware others others others others sample_function sample_function sample_function others
After the backdoor is run , it starts a sniffer for each network interface , in order to detect a specially structured packet , which is sent to the victim ’s ProbePort specified in the configuration .		others others malware others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
When the sniffer finds a packet like that , it interprets it as a request to establish a connection and sets TransferPort ( specified in the configuration ) to listening mode .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others tool others others others others others others others others others others
The requester immediately connects to the victim ’s TransferPort and both sides perform additional checks , exchanging their encryption keys .		others others others others others others others others others tool others others others others others others others others others others others others
Then the connection requester sends commands to the victim , and the victim processes these interactively .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
This approach allows the backdoor to maintain listening mode without keeping any socket in listening mode – it only creates a listening socket when it knows that someone is trying to connect .		others others others others malware others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
The backdoor supports the same commands as the steganography backdoor and implements an additional one .		others malware others others others others others others others malware others others others others others others
The backdoor leverages the Windows index service and can search files for keywords provided by the attacker .		others malware others others OS_name tool tool others others others others others others others others others others others
This search can be initiated by an attacker request or on a schedule – keywords for a scheduled search are stored in a dedicated file .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
All commands are supplied to the backdoor through command files .		others others others others others others malware others others others others
The command files are protected the same way as the config .		others others others others others others others others others others others others
This consists of a command id ( id ) , a command date ( dt ) , a command name ( t ) and arguments ( cmd ) .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
The creators of the malware also provide the ability to combine infected victims into a P2P network .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others tool tool others
This can help the attacker , for example , when two infected victims share the same local network , but only one of them has access to the internet .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
In this case , the attacker can send a command file to the unreachable victim via the reachable one .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
The instruction for the reachable victim that the command is intended for the other host is placed directly inside the command file .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
When the attacker prepares the file , a list of infected hosts involved in transferring the file to the destination is included as the h1 , h2 , h3 , etc .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
options .		others others
The order in which the command file will be transferred through the victims to the destination host is included as the p1 , p2 , etc .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
options .		others others
For example , if the p1 option equals ‘ 2->3->1 ’ and the p2 option equals to ‘ 2->3->4 ’ the command file will be delivered to the hosts with the indexes 1 and 4 through hosts 2 and then 3 .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
Each host is described as follows : %Host IP% : %Host ProbePort% : %Host TransferPort% .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others tool others others others others tool others others
We have discovered a new attack by this group and noted that the actors are still working on improving their malicious utility and using new techniques for making the APT stealthier .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
A couple of years ago , we predicted that more and more APT and malware developers would use steganography , and here is proof : the actors used two interesting steganography techniques in this APT .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
One more interesting detail is that the actors decided to implement the utilities they need as one huge set – this reminds us of the framework-based architecture that is becoming more and more popular .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
Finally , based on the custom cryptor used by the actors , we have been able to attribute this attack to the notorious PLATINUM group , which means this group is still active .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others others threatActor_name others others others others others others others others others others
This list includes only IoCs related to the described modules of the attack .		others others others others others others others others others others others others others others
All IoCs are available to customers of the Kaspersky Intelligence Reporting service ( contact intelreports@kaspersky.com ) .		others others others others others others others others security_team security_team security_team others others others url url url others others
PLATINUM : Steganography backdoor installer , 26a83effbe14b63683f0c3e0a3f657a9 , 4b4c3b57416c03ca7f57ff7241797456 , 58b10ac25df04a318a19260110d43894 .		threatActor_name others tool tool tool others sha1 others sha1 others sha1 others
PLATINUM : Obsolete steganography backdoor launcher ,d95d939337d789046bbda2083f88a4a0 , b22499568d51759cf13bf8c05322dba2 .		threatActor_name others tool tool tool tool others sha1 others sha1 others
PLATINUM : Steganography backdoor , 5591704fd870919930e8ae1bd0447706 , 9179a84643bd6d1c1b8e6fe0d2330dab , c7fda2be17735eeaeb6c56d30fc86215 , d1936dc97566625b2bfcab3103c048cb , d1a5801abb9f0dc0a44f19b2208e2b9a .		threatActor_name others tool tool others sha1 others sha1 others sha1 others sha1 others sha1 others
PLATINUM : P2P backdoor , 0668df90c701cd75db2aa43a0481718d , e764a1ff12e68badb6d54f16886a128f .		threatActor_name others tool tool others sha1 others sha1 others
PLATINUM : Config manager , 8dfabe7db613bcfc6d9afef4941cd769 , 37c76973a55134925c733f4f50108555 .		threatActor_name others tool tool others sha1 others sha1 others